hello dragons my name is Joe I'm the
founder of thrift plus and I'm here
today to pitch for 150,000 pounds in
exchange for 5% of my business now I'd
like you to imagine please that you're
in your bedroom at home you're standing
in front of your wardrobe it's time for
a clear-out you grab a bin bag and you
shove it full of clothes it stays in
your house for weeks and then finally
you dump it into a big metal donation
bin in the corner of a supermarket car
park at thrift plus we believe that your
best second-hand clothes deserve better
than dustbin bags and donation bins we
make it easy to donate your best
second-hand clothes to your favorite
charity you go onto our web site and you
order a thrift box or a thrift bag you
fill it up with clothes and you return
it back to us for free and then we use
automated photography and automated
pricing to upload or online store and
automatically sync all of our inventory
with eBay in under four minutes as
you're acting so when we split the funds
three ways we charge a third as our
commission we send the third to your
chosen charity and then we give you a
third back we are now selling 20,000
pounds of clothes each month and we are
building the place to shop second-hand
clothes online this opportunity has
already been proven in the US where
thredUP
is selling over 100 million dollars of
clothes each year in March 2018 we
raised 500 thousand pounds we are now
seeking your support as part of a second
500 thousand pound raise in order to
build the a sauce of second hand
shopping thank you very much for
listening I'd like to hand out some
thrift bags and I'd be delighted to
answer any questions a prudent pitch
from thrift Plus entrepreneur Joe
Medcalf joke he wants to bag 150,000
pounds in exchange for 5% of his company
Sarah Davies is first to quiz the second
hand clothing entrepreneur jaw so where
did the idea come from so I've spent the
last five years on this I saw after the
recession that everyone was shopping
online and I got obsessed with the
charity retail sector I
wanted to help them serve consumers
better sure I just want to sound a bit
about the four minutes it takes per item
to upload how are you going to get that
quicker so there's incremental
improvements we can make to that four
minutes we can start using computer
vision to start putting in some of the
data asking our donors to add some of
the data right so what's your average
time for this stop to come in before you
actually sell it on your site we sell
37% of it in the first month everything
goes on our website and also we sync all
of our inventory with eBay and so 80
percent of our sales coming via the ebay
platform it sounded really great up
until the point that you said eBay I
think it's really poor that you've had
to use eBay instead of building your own
thrift Plus profile so that's the next
step this is what this current
fundraisers to help us achieve we're
using eBay at the moment because it's
helped us prove the model well it hasn't
you've proved that eBay works I've
proved that people will donate us stuff
trust us to sell their stuff online and
that they will pay a premium for someone
to do it for them and that there is
something special about donation with
reward an unruffled response from Joe as
he defends his business model to a
dubious pizza Jones can he convince
Sarah Davies his donate and Shop
proposition adds up to an investment
talk me through the last financial year
2019 to date we've already sold 110
thousand pounds of clothes we spent 185
thousand pounds and building the
business and so at a net loss of two
hundred and thirty seven thousand pounds
and what do you project that your sales
will be at the point whereby your
breakeven from getting investment and
then for the twelve months after that
we're expecting to do 3.3 million
so we're not far away you feel like
you're a long way away we are absolutely
ready to scale now it just feels like a
really big step up Sara Davies probing
reveals ambitious sales predictions from
the entrepreneur but what does fashion
supremo Tuco Suleiman Joe's other
favored investor make of the charity
meets commerce opportunity what concerns
me is we are in the world of fast
fashion and deflation in clothing in the
last 15 years and I see that as an
opportunity because we are going to
convert fast fashion shoppers into
second hand shoppers yeah but to
actually make this work the problem
you've got is you've got to keep on
raising money actually I don't want to
be a business that continually raises
money you are and you'll have to because
you're burning money and that's my
concern how exciting is it once we sell
100 million pounds of clothes online and
a third of that revenue figure is going
to charity so you think you want to do
hundreds of million pounds online
absolutely do you know how did look
that's got a bit you're going to be
selling 200,000 pieces a week or more
and the supply is there but that's more
than some of the biggest retailers in
the country I'm excited to be one of the
biggest retailers in the country I think
you're in dreamland
Tuka Suleyman issues a wake-up call to
the entrepreneur about the scale of his
retail ambitions and it appears Deborah
Medan has an issue with the business's
branding so when I put my items in that
bag that names a great name I like that
name
you know that makes me feel good when I
receive a bag that's got thrift written
all over it that name would worry me
it doesn't quite give you that yeah that
feeling or do you respect that do you
think you're his target for all due
respect me one of my least favorite
phrases was with all due respect because
what it means is whatever you're gonna
say it's gonna completely ignore what I
just said do you are you in the mindset
of a customer who would be likely to
donate more so than the potential
shopper yes but I don't think that that
feeling of when you bought something
online changes you want that box to turn
up and you want to go can't wait to open
it so I properly wish you luck on this
one thank you but I guarantee you're
actually gonna need quite a lot more
money than you think you need so I'm out
Deborah Medan refuses to bag the
investment opportunity can Peter Jones
overcome his earlier concerns about the
online platform and make a bit for the
business I think that
the cost of what you're doing could
outweigh and could extinguish any profit
and I worry about this eBay situation I
really do think it needs to stand on its
own two feet
those are my issues but that blast issue
is my main one for saying that I'm not
going to invest and I'm out if I
invested today and said I can bring a
lot of value to you but I don't want to
be diluted ever again could you agree
that probably not know so basically if
I'm in 450 grand for 5% I could end up a
1% in 18 months time and you must said
no that I don't get out of bed for 1% I
don't think you can reward me enough for
my money I don't want to be diluted to
1% I'm not going to make an offer
I'm out
short shrift for thrift from touka
Suleiman and Joe's dreams of investment
are unraveling will Taylor varney be
willing to buck the trend and buy into
the secondhand sale site look I'll tell
you where I'm Joe I like this space and
I like the charity model and I think
there's definitely disruption here so
I'm gonna make you an offer
I believe the value I can add here could
be significant in the consumer branding
side of things
I'll offer you all of the money but for
20% of the business
a change in fortune for the entrepreneur
as Taylor Varney makes an offer but he
wants four times the equity Joe wanted
to give away his Sarah Davies in a
position to better his bid do I like it
I like what you're doing I like the
meaning behind it the way you've held up
against the questioning from all the
Dragons who has been really impressive
I'll offer you all of the money but in
light of the fact that I do think we
could be taught in a while before we get
any sort of money back I would like a
10% stake in your business
I will just take a moment to have a
think about that that's okay
yet ticket on the wolf to offers for the
full one hundred and fifty thousand but
Tesla Varney wants a considerable 20
percent stake Sara Davies undercuts her
rival dragon by ten percent
but it still double the five percent the
entrepreneur wanted to give away great
so - would you be able to get down to
the ten percent I'm definitely very
interested in the business and I think
you're fantastic but I'm definitely
going to get diluted so that was my
thinking the numbers just don't work so
I'm afraid I'm not going to be able to
accept that offer that's fine I'm out a
refusal to compromise bite as Levani
leaves Joe one deal down Sara Davies 10%
equity offer remains on the table
and sarra if you'd be willing to agree
at 7.5% then I'd love to do the deal I
would love to do the deal but I would
also love to own a meaningful part of
the company and that comes with a cost
I'd love to accept your offer awesome
really well done
really excited
[Music]